622 api export import docs (#1596)
AbsaOSS/enceladus: _docs/2.0.0/usage/menas-api.md

---
layout: docs
title: Usage - Menas API
version: '2.0.0'
categories:
    - '2.0.0'
    - usage
---

- [Export Entity](#export-entity)
  - [Example Import Response for Schema](#example-import-response-for-schema)
- [Entity Import](#entity-import)
  - [JSON payload](#json-payload)
  - [Example Export Response for Schema](#example-export-response-for-schema)

### Export Entity

> This feature exports a single entity from Menas. All exports are versionless, except for connected entities. They are kept as is, but need to be validated before import, that they match.

Reviewer: They are kept as is however would need to be validated before import to ensure that they match.

Reviewer: to ensure they match ( remove that)

> This feature exports a single entity from Menas. All exports are version less. Except for connected entities. They are kept as is, but need to be validated before import, that they match.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This feature exports a single entity from Menas. All exports are versionless, except for connected entities. They are kept as is, but need to be validated before import, that they match.
```

Reviewer: I would say ' They are kept as is however need to be validated before import to ensure they match '

> `GET /menas/api/{entity}/exportItem/{name}/{version}`

Reviewer 3: How about the fact that schema attachments can also be exported via `/menas/api/schema/export/{name}/{version}`?

Also, maybe this would only complicate things, so I can see why you took this shortcut, just want to know if it was deliberate or not: Even though with our deployments, Menas and its API is usually deployed under `/menas`, technically, it can be operated under a different path-prefix, so maybe one could at least mention it somewhere that this mental shortcut is used in the API docs everywhere.

Author: - `/menas` is a mistake it was meant to be something like `{menas_url}/api/...`. Will fix
- I know of export, but it is used for something else and this export does not have any import counterpart. It is not a full entity export but only schema export

|---|---|---|
| name | String | the name of the column |
| type | String | the type of the column |
| path | String | parent column name |
| absolutePath | String | absolute path to the column |
| elementType | String | if field is a struct or array |
| nullable | Boolean | boolean value specifying nullability |
| metadata | Struct | metadata of the field, like patters, default value, etc. |
| children | Array of Fields | array of fields. Sub-columns/fields to this one. |

Example:
```json
{
  "metadata": {
    "exportVersion": 1
  },
  "item": {
    "name": "Name",
    "description": "",
    "fields": [
      {
        "name": "Boolean",
        "type": "boolean",
        "path": "",
        "elementType": null,
        "containsNull": null,
        "nullable": true,
        "metadata": {
          "default": null
        },
        "children": [],
        "absolutePath": "Boolean"
      },
      {
        "name": "Byte",
        "type": "byte",
        "path": "",
        "elementType": null,
        "containsNull": null,
        "nullable": true,
        "metadata": {},
        "children": [],
        "absolutePath": "Byte"
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

### Entity Import

> This feature imports a single entity. All imports are version less. If import does not find an entity with the same name it will create a new one and start the version from 1. If import finds a version it will update the previous version.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This feature imports a single entity. All imports are versionless. If the import does not find an entity with the same name it will create a new one and start the version from 1. If the import finds an existing version, it will update the previous version.
```

Versions of connected entities need to be specified properly. Export of a Dataset carries a Schema and maybe a Mapping table as connected entities. These have versions and these versions need to exist on Import.

`POST /menas/api/{entity}/importItem`

- entity is `schema`, `dataset` or `mappingTable`
- expects a JSON payload

#### JSON payload

JSON payload is the same as the JSON response from the [export](#example-import-response-for-schema).

#### Example Export Response for Schema

On success, it is the same as JSON payload of update or create API, depending if the entity name already existed or not.

> On failure, you will get a list off error produced by the validation like bellow

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
On failure, you will get a list of errors produced by the validation like bellow
```

---
layout: docs
title: Usage - Menas API
version: '2.0.0'
categories:
    - '2.0.0'
    - usage
---

- [Export Entity](#export-entity)
  - [Example Import Response for Schema](#example-import-response-for-schema)
- [Entity Import](#entity-import)
  - [JSON payload](#json-payload)
  - [Example Export Response for Schema](#example-export-response-for-schema)

### Export Entity

This endpoint exports a single entity from Menas. All exports are versionless, except for connected entities. They are kept as is, but need to be validated before import.

`GET {menas_url}/api/{entity}/exportItem/{name}/{version}`

- entity is `schema`, `dataset` or `mappingTable`
- name is the name of the entity as seen in Menas
- version is the version of the entity as seen in Menas. Version is optional and in that case the latest version will be used

> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion

**Resposes:**
| Code | Description |
|------|-------------|
| 200  | Successful export with exported entity in the response payload |
| 404  | Requested entity was not found |

```

#### Example Import Response for Schema

> Returns code is 200.

Reviewer 4: This does not belong to the examples chapter, I bet. But few lines higher, I guess.

Also no 404 status or maybe other?

Example:
```json
{
  "metadata": {
    "exportVersion": 1
  },
  "item": {
    "name": "Name",
    "description": "",
    "fields": [
      {
        "name": "Boolean",
        "type": "boolean",
        "path": "",
        "elementType": null,
        "containsNull": null,
        "nullable": true,
        "metadata": {
          "default": null
        },
        "children": [],
        "absolutePath": "Boolean"
      },
      {
        "name": "Byte",
        "type": "byte",
        "path": "",
        "elementType": null,
        "containsNull": null,
        "nullable": true,
        "metadata": {},
        "children": [],
        "absolutePath": "Byte"
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

### Entity Import

This endpoint imports a single entity. All imports are versionless. If the import does not find an entity with the same name it will create a new one and start the version from 1. If the import finds an existing version, it will update the previous version.

Versions of connected entities need to be specified properly. Export of a Dataset carries a Schema and maybe some Mapping tables as connected entities. These have versions and these versions need to exist on Import.

> `POST {menas_url}//api/{entity}/importItem`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`POST {menas_url}/api/{entity}/importItem`
```

- entity is `schema`, `dataset` or `mappingTable`
- expects a JSON payload

#### JSON payload

JSON payload is the same as the JSON response from the [export](#example-import-response-for-schema).

> 

Reviewer 4: | Code | Description |
|------|-------------|
| 201  | Successful import of the entity |
| ???  | Error, with payload describing the error |

Reviewer 3: If there truly is a Location header (that 201 Created should be accompanied with), maybe there could be a mention of that, too?

Author: @dk1844 I do not know what is location header.

#### Example Export Response for Schema

> On success, it is the same as JSON payload of update or create API, depending if the entity name already existed or not. Response code is 201.

Reviewer 4: Ditto with position of the code.
